THE FINAL FRONTIER.
Kirk: SPACE:
OF THE STARSHIP ENTERPRISE.
THESE ARE THE VOYAGES
TO EXPLORE STRANGE NEW WORLDS,
ITS FIVE-YEAR MISSION:
AND NEW CIVILIZATIONS,
TO SEEK OUT NEW LIFE
WHERE NO MAN HAS GONE BEFORE.
TO BOLDLY GO
Kirk: CAPTAIN'S LOG,
STARDATE 5143.3.
OF THE ROMULAN NEUTRAL ZONE,
WHILE PATROLLING THE EDGE
CHANGED COURSE TO ASSIST
THE ENTERPRISE HAS
A ONE-MAN VESSEL
WHICH HAS FALLEN VICTIM
TO A METEOR SWARM.
THE OCCUPANT IS STILL ALIVE.
SENSORS INDICATE
THE VESSEL, MR. SPOCK?
HAVE YOU IDENTIFIED
DIFFICULT TO BELIEVE.
BUT YOU MAY FIND IT
YES, CAPTAIN.
THE VESSEL IS REGISTERED
TO CARTER WINSTON.
THAT'S IMPOSSIBLE, SPOCK.
CARTER WINSTON'S BEEN MISSING
OVER FIVE YEARS.
INCREDIBLE. IT IS HIM.
CARTER WINSTON.
YOU GENTLEMEN KNOW ME.
IT SEEMS
IN THE FEDERATION
THERE ARE FEW
WHO WOULDN'T RECOGNIZE
YOUR FACE, SIR.
I'M CAPTAIN JAMES KIRK,
COMMANDING THIS VESSEL.
MY FIRST OFFICER,
MR. SPOCK,
SENIOR MEDICAL OFFICER.
DR. McCOY,
TO MEET YOU, MR. WINSTON.
I'M ESPECIALLY HONORED
MY DAUGHTER WAS GOING
TO SCHOOL ON CERBERUS
ABOUT 10 YEARS AGO
WHEN THE CROP FAILURE
OCCURRED.
THE ENTIRE POPULATION
WOULD'VE STARVED, JIM,
USED HIS PERSONAL FORTUNE
IF WINSTON HERE HADN'T
TO BRING IN ENOUGH FOOD
AND GOODS TO CARRY THEM
THROUGH THE CRISIS.
ONE OF THE MANY STORIES
I'VE HEARD ABOUT YOU,
MR. WINSTON.
IT'S AN HONOR FOR ALL OF US
TO HAVE YOU ABOARD.
WHO SHOULD BE ESPECIALLY HAPPY
THERE IS ONE PERSON ABOARD
TO LEARN YOU ARE ALIVE,
MR. WINSTON.
OF OUR SECURITY DETAIL.
LIEUTENANT ANNE NORED
ANNE'S ABOARD THIS STARSHIP?
MY FIANCéE.
YOUR CREDENTIALS, MR. WINSTON.
AS SOON AS WE'VE VERIFIED
WE WILL NOTIFY HER
YOUR IDENTITY TAPES
IF YOU HAVE
WITH YOU...
OF ALL THE COLD-BLOODED,
SPOCK!
INHOSPITABLE REQUESTS
I'VE EVER HEARD!
I BELIEVE OUR REGULATIONS
ARE QUITE CLEAR, DOCTOR.
AN IMMEDIATE IDENTITY CHECK
AND MEDICAL EXAMINATION
ARE A STANDARD REQUIREMENT
AT THIS POINT.
SPOCK IS RIGHT,
AS USUAL, BONES.
AND I UNDERSTAND, OF COURSE.
MY CREDENTIALS, CAPTAIN.
HAS RESCUED A LIVING LEGEND,
Kirk: THE ENTERPRISE
THE FOREMOST SPACE TRADER
OF OUR TIME.
CARTER WINSTON HAS ACQUIRED
A DOZEN FORTUNES
ONLY TO USE HIS WEALTH
TIME AND AGAIN TO ASSIST
FEDERATION COLONIES
IN TIMES OF NEED OR DISASTER.
LIBRARY COMPUTER,
VERIFY RECORD TAPE
ON WINSTON CARTER.
IDENTIFICATION POSITIVE.
Computer: WORKING.
FINGERPRINTS POSITIVE.
VOICE PRINT POSITIVE.
AND REGISTRATION IN ORDER.
ALL LICENSES
VISUAL DISPLAY OF OWNER.
CHECKS OUT.
A DISTINGUISHED PASSENGER
WITH US FOR A WHILE.
IT SEEMS WE'LL HAVE
[BEEPING]
IS THERE SOME PROBLEM, DOCTOR?
THIS INSTRUMENT SEEMS
A LITTLE OFF.
I'VE, UH, NEVER GOTTEN
FROM A HUMAN BEFORE.
QUITE THIS READING
[CHUCKLES]
I'M NOT QUITE HUMAN, DOCTOR?
ARE YOU SUGGESTING
A FRACTION OFF NORMAL.
ANYWAY, IT'S JUST
OF COURSE NOT.
IT'S PROBABLY THE INSTRUMENT.
THEY NEED TO BE RECALIBRATED
EVERY SO OFTEN.
THE CAPTAIN IS INQUIRING
IS COMPLETED, DOCTOR.
IF THE EXAMINATION
UH, YES, I SUPPOSE SO.
WAITING TO SEE MR. WINSTON
AND LIEUTENANT NORED IS
ONCE YOU'VE CERTIFIED
HIS MEDICAL CONDITION.
WELL, I CERTAINLY DON'T WANT
TO KEEP YOU ANY LONGER
FROM YOUR FIANCéE.
SHOW HER IN.
OH, CARTER.
I'M SORRY, ANNE.
WE WOULD MEET AGAIN.
I NEVER THOUGHT
CARTER, WHAT IS IT?
ON THAT LAST TRIP,
WHEN I LEFT
I FULLY INTENDED TO COME BACK
AND MARRY YOU.
BUT MY SHIP WAS DISABLED
AND I CRASHED ON VENDOR.
I WAS LUCKY I SURVIVED.
I'M TOLD
BUT YOU DID SURVIVE.
AND WE'RE TOGETHER AGAIN.
YOU'RE ALIVE,
ANNE, I'M CHANGED.
FIRST THERE WAS SURGERY,
REGROWTH OF BONE.
SKIN GRAFT,
AFTER THEY PUT ME TOGETHER,
ONE OF THEIR PEOPLE TO ME,
THEY ASSIGNED
AND HE NURSED ME
BACK TO HEALTH.
BUT YOU SAID YOU'VE CHANGED.
HOW? I DON'T SEE ANY CHANGE.
BETWEEN US, ANNE.
IT'S OVER
I'M SORRY.
BUT I CAN'T MARRY YOU, EVER.
I CAN'T EXPLAIN WHY,
TAKE THE CONN, MR. SPOCK.
I'LL BE IN MY CABIN
COMPLETING THE REPORT
ON WINSTON'S RESCUE.
[KNOCKING AT DOOR]
COME.
I HOPE I'M NOT INTRUDING,
CAPTAIN.
NO, PLEASE COME IN,
MR. WINSTON.
TO EXAMINE MY SHIP.
I'VE BEEN DOWN
IN THE SHUTTLEBAY.
THEY STOWED IT
IT'S PRETTY BADLY DAMAGED.
YES, I'M AFRAID
IT'S HARDLY WORTH SALVAGING
RIGHT NOW.
I'VE HAD OUR ENGINEERING
OFFICER, MR. SCOTT,
AND MAKE A REPORT.
EXAMINE IT
IT'S HERE SOMEWHERE.
ANYTHING LEFT IN YOUR SHIP
HE DOESN'T THINK THERE'S
EXCEPT SCRAP VALUE.
THESE INSTRUMENTS, DOCTOR.
WELL, I CAN'T FIND
ANYTHING WRONG WITH
THEY CHECK OUT, BUT THE READINGS
ARE STILL SLIGHTLY OFF.
OF THE TESTS ON WINSTON?
WHAT ABOUT THE REST
WELL, SOME ARE OFF
AND SOME AREN'T.
IT HAS TO BE OUR ERROR.
COME ON, WE'LL START
FROM THE BEGINNING,
WE'RE GOING TO FIND THE ANSWER.
AND THIS TIME
TO YOUR CABIN, SIR?
WEREN'T YOU GOING
LAY IN A DIRECT COURSE
FOR RATOR III.
MR. SULU,
THROUGH THE ROMULAN
NEUTRAL ZONE, SIR?
THAT WAS THE ORDER,
HELMSMAN.
BUT, SIR, IF WE'RE CAUGHT THERE,
THE ROMULANS
CAN CONFISCATE THE SHIP --
THE TREATY...
OF THE TREATY, MR. SULU,
I KNOW THE TERMS
YOU HEARD MY ORDER.
AND I BELIEVE
AYE, AYE, SIR.
CAPTAIN, THE EXTREME
LONG-RANGE SENSORS
SHOW SOMETHING IN THE ZONE.
PRECISELY WHAT IT IS.
AT THIS DISTANCE,
I CANNOT DETERMINE
IT COULD BE A TRADING VESSEL
LIKE WINSTON'S.
BUT IT DOES NOT SEEM PRUDENT
TO TAKE THE RISK OF TRESPASS
INTO THE ZONE.
I'VE SPOKEN TO WINSTON
ON THIS AT SOME LENGTH.
Kirk: MR. SPOCK,
HE HAS ASSURED ME
IT IS ABSOLUTELY VITAL
TO GET TO RATOR III
IN THE SHORTEST POSSIBLE TIME.
THE SURVIVAL OF THE ENTIRE
PLANETARY POPULATION
MAY DEPEND ON IT.
AN ADMIRABLE MISSION, CAPTAIN,
BUT IF WE ENDANGER
OUR SHIP...
IF I DIDN'T FEEL IT SAFE, SPOCK.
I WOULDN'T HAVE ORDERED IT
WINSTON SAYS HIS SENSORS
DETECTED NO ROMULANS
THROUGH THE ZONE LAST WEEK.
WHEN HE CAME
HE'S TELLING THE TRUTH,
I'M SATISFIED
AND HIS WORD IS
CONSIDERED GOOD.
-ISN'T IT?
-THAT HAS BEEN HIS REPUTATION.
-COURSE LAID IN, SIR.
-EXECUTE.
-ON COURSE, SIR.
-YOU HAVE THE CONN, MR. SPOCK.
Spock: SHIP'S LOG,
STARDATE 5148.7.
FIRST OFFICER SPOCK RECORDING.
THE CAPTAIN'S COURSE CHANGE
INTO THE ROMULAN NEUTRAL ZONE.
HAS TAKEN US DEEP
Kirk: I'LL TAKE THE CONN,
MR. SPOCK.
IS SOMETHING WRONG, CAPTAIN?
I'M NOT SURE.
TO DICTATE THE ACCIDENT REPORT,
I WENT DOWN TO MY QUARTERS
TO HAVE FALLEN ASLEEP.
AND I SEEM
I'VE NEVER DONE
THAT BEFORE.
PERHAPS YOU NEEDED THE REST.
THROUGH THE NEUTRAL ZONE, SIR.
WE ARE ON COURSE
THE NEUTRAL ZONE?
WE HAVE NO AUTHORIZATION
TO ENTER IT.
A COURSE CHANGE, SPOCK?
DID YOU ORDER
-NO, SIR. YOU DID.
-RIDICULOUS.
NO CAPTAIN OF THE STARFLEET
WOULD DO THAT UNLESS IT WAS
A MATTER OF LIFE AND DEATH.
THE REASON YOU GAVE, CAPTAIN.
I BELIEVE THAT WAS
TO YOUR CABIN, SIR?
WEREN'T YOU GOING
LAY IN A DIRECT COURSE
FOR RATOR III.
MR. SULU,
THROUGH THE ROMULAN
NEUTRAL ZONE, SIR?
THAT WAS AN ORDER,
HELMSMAN.
THAT'S ENOUGH, SPOCK.
MR. SCOTT, TAKE THE CONN.
SPOCK.
MR. SULU, PLOT A COURSE
TO TAKE THE ENTERPRISE
OUT OF THE NEUTRAL ZONE
AT WARP 8.
PUT THE SHIP ON YELLOW ALERT.
LIEUTENANT M'RESS,
MR. SPOCK, I DON'T REMEMBER
GIVING THOSE ORDERS.
AND FELL ASLEEP. THAT'S ALL.
I LEFT THE BRIDGE,
WENT TO MY QUARTERS
PERHAPS DR. McCOY SHOULD
EXAMINE YOU, CAPTAIN.
DEFINITELY. I'VE BECOME
SUBJECT TO BLACKOUTS.
TO THE SAFETY OF THE SHIP.
I'M A POSSIBLE DANGER
I CAN'T ALLOW THAT.
THE TESTS I RAN ON YOU.
I WAS JUST FINISHING
OH, WINSTON.
I DON'T THINK...
[THUDDING]
DR. McCOY?
McCoy: CAN I HELP YOU?
I DON'T KNOW, DOCTOR.
I--I JUST THOUGHT...
WELL, I HAVE TO TALK
TO SOMEONE.
IT'S YOU AND CARTER WINSTON.
OH, NOW, LET ME GUESS.
HE TOLD ME A LITTLE ABOUT IT
WHEN I EXAMINED HIM.
DOCTOR, WHAT DO I DO?
I STILL LOVE HIM.
WELL, I'M SURE HE'D LIKE
TO FEEL THE SAME WAY
ABOUT YOU, ANNE,
BUT THAT MAY BE IMPOSSIBLE.
FIVE YEARS, THAT'S A LONG TIME.
PEOPLE CHANGE.
WHAT CAN I DO?
I HAVEN'T.
WELL, IF HE ASKED YOU
TO FORGET HIM,
I THINK YOU SHOULD TRY
TO DO JUST THAT.
HE'D WANT TO DECEIVE YOU?
DO YOU THINK
OH, NO.
HE'S THE GENTLEST,
MOST THOUGHTFUL MAN
I'VE EVER KNOWN.
IF HE DOESN'T WANT YOU
YES, BUT, MY DEAR,
AND HE HAS ASKED YOU
TO FORGET HIM,
THEN I SUGGEST YOU TAKE THAT
AS AN HONEST CONCERN
FOR YOU AND DO IT.
FORGET WINSTON.
UH, THANK YOU, DOCTOR.
I'LL CONSIDER
YOUR ADVICE.
WHAT CAN I DO FOR YOU,
CAPTAIN?
MEDICAL EXAMINATION, BONES.
I WANT A COMPLETE
SOMETHING'S JUST HAPPENED...
MAKE IT LATER TODAY, CAPTAIN.
I'M AFRAID I'LL HAVE TO
I HAVE TOO MANY TESTS
TO PROCESS RIGHT NOW.
CARTER WINSTON'S?
TESTED OUT NORMAL.
THAT ONE'S DONE.
THERE IS NO POSSIBILITY
YOU MADE AN ERROR?
ARE YOU SURE
WELL, THERE'S ALWAYS
THAT POSSIBILITY.
I'LL GO OVER THEM AGAIN
IF YOU LIKE.
NO, THAT WON'T BE NECESSARY.
FOR THAT EXAMINATION.
I'LL COME BY LATER
LET'S GO, SPOCK.
CAPTAIN, DID YOU NOTICE
DR. McCOY'S REACTION
WHEN I ASKED HIM
IF THERE WAS ANY POSSIBILITY
HE MIGHT HAVE MADE AN ERROR?
HE SAID THERE'S ALWAYS
THAT POSSIBILITY.
AND THAT'S NOT LIKE BONES
AT ALL. COME ON.
THERE ARE NOT MANY PLACES
ONE COULD HIDE IN HERE.
[McCOY MOANS]
McCoy: HMM.
I MUST'VE TAKEN
A LITTLE NAP.
DOCTOR, YOU ARE A MAN
OF CURIOUS HABITS,
ON THE LABORATORY FLOOR.
BUT I HAVE NEVER
KNOWN YOU TO NAP
THERE'S SOMETHING WRONG
ABOUT THIS ROOM.
YOU CAN COME OUT NOW.
ALL RIGHT, WINSTON,
I SUGGEST YOU SHOW YOURSELF,
WINSTON, OR WHATEVER YOU ARE.
I'M A MAN OF CURIOUS HABITS?
DID YOU SAY
JIM'S TALKING TO A TABLE.
I DON'T THINK SO, DOCTOR.
EXAMINING TABLES IN THIS ROOM.
THERE USED TO BE ONLY TWO
NOW THERE ARE THREE.
I JUST REALIZED THAT.
OF ORIENTINE ACID, WINSTON.
THIS IS A VIAL
IT WILL BURN THROUGH
BUT THIS CRYSTAL.
ALMOST ANYTHING
IF YOU'VE NEVER SEEN IT WORK,
I'LL DEMONSTRATE ON YOU.
BUT I DON'T BELIEVE IT.
I SAW THAT,
A VENDORIAN, DOCTOR.
IS QUARANTINED,
THEIR PLANET
EVER DO SEE THEM.
AND FEW PEOPLE
THEIR ABILITY TO REARRANGE
THEIR MOLECULAR STRUCTURE
INTO ANYTHING WITH THE SAME
GENERAL SIZE AND MASS
AND THEIR PRACTICE OF DECEIT
PUTS THEM OFF LIMITS.
AS A WAY OF LIFE
MR. SPOCK, GET A SECURITY TEAM
DOWN HERE ON THE DOUBLE.
McCoy: JIM!
PUT ME ON SHIP'S AUDIO.
SPOCK TO BRIDGE.
Spock on PA system:
ALL SECURITY TEAMS,
INTRUDER ALERT.
REPEAT, INTRUDER ALERT.
THE INTRUDER IS A VENDORIAN,
ANY SHAPE OR IDENTITY.
CAPABLE OF ASSUMING
UH...
ANNE, WHAT ARE YOU DOING?
MY JOB.
IT ISN'T HARD TO GUESS
WHO THE INTRUDER IS.
YOU'RE THE ONLY STRANGER
ABOARD, CARTER.
YOU COULD'VE STOPPED HIM.
WHY DIDN'T YOU FIRE?
LIEUTENANT NORED,
I... I COULDN'T.
TO BE THE INTRUDER, CAPTAIN,
I KNEW HE HAD
THE IMAGE OF THE MAN I LOVED.
BUT I COULDN'T HARM
HE IS NOT THE MAN YOU LOVED.
CARTER WINSTON IS DEAD.
LIEUTENANT,
I KNOW THAT, TOO, NOW.
SECURITY TEAMS REPORT NO SIGN
OF THE ALIEN ON THIS DECK,
CAPTAIN.
I WAS AFRAID OF THAT.
ONCE OUT OF OUR SIGHT,
OR ANYTHING ABOARD THIS SHIP.
HE CAN BECOME ANYONE
[ALARM BLARING]
BRIDGE, THIS IS THE CAPTAIN.
WHAT'S HAPPENED?
BATTLE CRUISERS, CAPTAIN.
Scotty: TWO ROMULAN
AND THEY'RE HEADING
RIGHT FOR US.
Kirk: CAPTAIN'S LOG,
SUPPLEMENTAL.
BY THE ALIEN VENDORIAN ABOARD,
DUE TO INTERFERENCE
HAS BEEN DETECTED VIOLATING
THE ROMULAN NEUTRAL ZONE.
THE ENTERPRISE
THE ROMULANS HAVE A LEGAL RIGHT
BY THE TERMS OF OUR TREATY,
TO SEIZE AND IMPOUND
THE ENTERPRISE.
TO COMPLICATE MATTERS,
TO APPREHEND THE VENDORIAN
WE HAVE NOT BEEN ABLE
RESPONSIBLE FOR PUTTING US
IN THIS POSITION.
A PROPENSITY FOR TRESPASSING
YOU APPEAR TO HAVE
IN THE NEUTRAL ZONE,
CAPTAIN KIRK.
IT WAS NOT DELIBERATE,
I ASSURE YOU.
IT NEVER IS.
BUT THE RULES OF THE TREATY
ARE CLEAR.
TO CONTRAVENE THEM
WOULD MEAN WAR.
YOU WILL SURRENDER
YOUR SHIP, CAPTAIN.
AT THE NEAREST OUTPOST
WE WILL RELEASE YOU
AND YOUR CREW
THAT GUARDS THE NEUTRAL ZONE.
I'D LIKE A FEW MINUTES
TO INFORM MY CREW.
FIVE MINUTES, NO MORE.
VERY WELL.
KIRK TO SECURITY.
ON THE SEARCH FOR THE VENDORIAN?
WHAT'S THE STATUS
Nored on intercom:
NO PROGRESS YET.
WE HAVE ALL DECKS PATROLLED,
BUT NO ONE HAS SEEN HIM.
CARRY ON, LIEUTENANT.
EXPECTING US, MR. SPOCK.
THE ROMULANS WERE
THAT WRECK OF WINSTON'S SHIP
A ROMULAN SPY ONBOARD.
WAS THE BAIT TO GET
WHO CAN CHANGE SHAPE AT WILL?
AND WHAT BETTER SPY
THAN A VENDORIAN
WHEN I WENT DOWN TO MY CABIN,
HE MUST HAVE PUT ME OUT
LONG ENOUGH
TO THE BRIDGE AND ORDER
THE COURSE CHANGE.
FOR HIM TO RETURN
IT WOULD SEEM SO.
OPEN A HAILING FREQUENCY,
LIEUTENANT M'RESS.
HAILING FREQUENCY OPEN, SIR.
THEY'RE WAITING FOR US.
TO TURN YOUR SHIP OVER TO US,
I ASSUME YOU ARE NOW READY
CAPTAIN.
WRONG ASSUMPTION,
COMMANDER.
CAPTAIN, YOU ARE OUTNUMBERED,
OUTGUNNED AND IN THE WRONG.
I ADMIRE YOUR COURAGE,
BUT I...
I HAVE NO CHOICE, COMMANDER.
YOU LURED ME HERE IN DIRECT
VIOLATION OF THE TREATY.
LURED, CAPTAIN?
HOW COULD WE LURE
A STARFLEET VESSEL
INTO THE NEUTRAL ZONE?
THROUGH THE USE OF A SPY
USING THE HUMAN FORM
OF CARTER WINSTON.
A SPY? COME, NOW, CAPTAIN.
YOUR IMAGINATION IS CREATIVE
BUT OBVIOUSLY OUT OF CONTROL.
YOU USED A VENDORIAN,
WHICH, I MIGHT ADD,
IS ALSO A VIOLATION
OF THE TREATY.
YOUR FIVE MINUTES
ARE UP, CAPTAIN.
EITHER SURRENDER YOUR SHIP
OR PREPARE TO FIGHT.
I WILL NOT SURRENDER MY SHIP.
WHAT ARE YOU DOING?
CAPTAIN, OUR DEFLECTOR SHIELDS
ARE COMING DOWN.
BRIDGE TO ENGINEERING.
SCOTTY, WHAT'S HAPPENED
TO THE SHIELDS?
MR. SCOTT ISN'T HERE, SIR.
GET THOSE SHIELDS
UP AGAIN NOW.
Gabler on intercom:
I CAN'T, SIR.
HANGAR DOORS ON THE SHUTTLECRAFT
DECK ARE OPENING, SIR.
THE VENDORIAN MUST BE
TRYING TO ESCAPE.
OVERRIDE THE CONTROL
AND SHUT THOSE DOORS.
WE NEED HIM.
-DOORS CLOSING, SIR.
-SPOCK, TAKE THE CONN.
TALK TO THE ROMULANS.
TRY TO STALL THEM.
AND SEND A SECURITY TEAM
TO THE HANGAR DECK.
I'LL BE IN ENGINEERING.
WHAT HAPPENED?
I DON'T KNOW, SIR.
I CAME UP HERE TO CHECK
THE BACKUP SYSTEMS,
AND THERE WAS A CREWMAN
TAKING THIS PANEL APART.
THAT'S ALL I REMEMBER.
HOW LONG WILL IT
TAKE TO FIX?
-TWO HOURS. AT LEAST.
-GET ON IT.
YOU'RE NOT GETTING PAST ME
THIS TIME.
I'VE LEARNED MY LESSON.
YES.
HE SAID YOU WERE
LIKE THAT,
PRACTICAL AS WELL AS
WARM AND LOVELY.
YOU'RE EVERYTHING
HE SAID YOU WERE.
CARTER? WHAT DID HE SAY?
MANY THINGS.
SOME WERE ONLY FEELINGS,
HE COULDN'T ALWAYS EXPRESS.
DEEP FEELINGS
HE DID LOVE YOU.
HOW DID HE DIE?
WINSTON CRASHED
ON OUR PLANET,
BY A VENDORIAN -- ME.
AND HE WAS TENDED
HE LIVED FOR ALMOST A YEAR
CEASED TO FUNCTION.
BEFORE HIS BODY
YOU ARE SO MUCH LIKE HIM,
HIS VOICE, HIS MANNERISMS.
THAT IS THE WAY
OF MY PEOPLE.
THE LONGER WE STAY
IN ANOTHER'S FORM,
THE MORE WE TAKE ON ITS MEMORY,
EMOTION, ATTITUDES.
NOT TOTALLY, BUT A GREAT DEAL
AS TIME PASSES.
HE DID SAY HE LOVED ME?
AS I DO.
SOME OF THE EMOTIONS HE FELT.
IN A SENSE, I FEEL
HIS LOVE FOR YOU
WAS VERY STRONG.
IT DID NOT END WHEN HE DIED.
BECAUSE I WAS THERE,
CARTER.
ANNE, THIS IS WHAT I AM.
CAN YOU LOVE THIS?
IT WOULD BE BEST TO FORGET ME?
YOU SEE WHY I TOLD YOU
BUT UNFORTUNATELY,
I CAN'T.
DIRECT HIT, CAPTAIN.
DAMAGE TO THE SECONDARY
PROPULSION SYSTEM.
APPARENTLY DECIDED TO FIGHT.
THE COMMANDER HAS
THE ROMULAN COMMANDER
IS SIGNALING, SIR.
I'LL PUT IT ON THE SCREEN.
ALL OUR MAIN BATTERIES
ARE TRAINED ON YOU.
CAPTAIN KIRK,
TO RESIST WOULD BE USELESS
AND WASTEFUL OF LIVES.
DO YOU SURRENDER?
WITHOUT DEFLECTORS, WE'RE JUST
A CLAY PIGEON FOR THEM.
PRACTICALITY DOES SUGGEST
CAPITULATION, CAPTAIN.
CAPTAIN, THE DEFLECTOR SHIELDS
ARE COMING UP AGAIN.
-THAT'S ONLY ONE SHIELD.
-YES, SIR.
BUT IT IS BETWEEN US
AND THE ROMULANS.
AIM FOR THE PROPULSION UNITS
OF THE LEAD ROMULAN VESSEL.
MR. SULU,
PREPARE TO FIRE PHASERS
AND PHOTON TORPEDOES
IN COMBINATION.
PHASERS AND TORPEDOES
READY, SIR.
FIRE.
FIRING NOW, CAPTAIN.
SECOND VESSEL
[VESSELS FIRING]
-LOCK ON SECOND TARGET.
-Sulu: READY, CAPTAIN.
FIRE.
Spock: STRANGE.
ROMULAN IS RETREATING ANYWAY.
WE DID NO DAMAGE, BUT THE
WE DO HAVE THEIR SPY.
THEY MAY BELIEVE
IF YOU WILL, MR. SPOCK.
SCAN THE OTHER VESSEL
FOR DAMAGE,
SECOND VESSEL POWER SUPPLY OUT.
CREW UNHARMED.
THEY SHOULD BE ABLE
TO REPAIR THE SHIP
IN A FEW DAYS.
GOOD WORK, MR. SCOTT.
THAT DEFLECTOR SHIELD WENT UP
JUST IN TIME.
BUT, SIR, I HAVEN'T FINISHED
REPAIRING THE SHIELD.
I TOLD YOU IT'LL TAKE HOURS,
AND IT WILL.
INTERESTING.
THEN WHAT WAS...
WINSTON.
THE REALM OF PROBABILITY.
IT IS NOT OUTSIDE
HIS OWN ATOMS TO BECOME
IF HE COULD REARRANGE
AN EXAMINATION TABLE,
ONE WOULD HAVE TO ASSUME
A DEFLECTOR SHIELD.
HE COULD BECOME
WILL SOMEONE TELL ME
WHAT'S GOING ON?
WHAT MANNER OF BEASTIE
IS THAT?
YOUR DEFLECTOR SHIELD,
MR. SCOTT.
TO YOUR SHIP IS OVER.
I ASSUME THE DANGER
-IT IS.
-AS IT SHOULD BE.
IF I ENDANGERED YOUR VESSEL.
I'M SORRY
WHY DID YOU DO IT?
AMONG MY OWN PEOPLE,
I'M A NON-PRODUCER,
USELESS.
ONLY TO DO THOSE TASKS
OF THE LOWEST ORDER.
AN OUTCAST FIT
OFFERED ME A LIFE,
THE ROMULANS
SOMETHING OF VALUE
I COULD DO.
IT IS IMPORTANT TO BE
OF VALUE TO SOMEONE.
WHAT CHANGED YOUR MIND
ABOUT THE ROMULANS?
IT SEEMS, CAPTAIN, THAT I'M MORE
CARTER WINSTON THAN I KNEW.
[CHUCKLING]
HE LOVED LIFE.
HE LOVED ANNE.
I COULDN'T ALLOW THE ROMULANS
TO HARM ANY OF YOU
BECAUSE OF HIM.
I UNDERSTAND.
WHAT WILL HAPPEN TO ME NOW?
YOU'LL HAVE TO STAND TRIAL.
BUT YOU DID SAVE THE ENTERPRISE
FROM THE ROMULANS,
AND I WILL RECOMMEND THAT BE
TAKEN INTO CONSIDERATION.
THANK YOU, CAPTAIN.
TO KEEP YOU UNDER GUARD.
I'M AFRAID I'LL HAVE
IN THE MEANTIME,
I THINK WE'VE HAD ENOUGH
OF THAT LITTLE TRICK.
ASSIGN ME THAT DUTY?
CAPTAIN, COULD YOU
BUT YOU'VE SEEN ME.
YOU KNOW WHAT I AM.
TERRIBLY IMPORTANT TO ME.
FORM DOESN'T SEEM
OR EVEN JUST PART OF HIM,
AS CARTER WINSTON
THERE'S A BETTER LIFE FOR YOU
THE ROMULANS MIGHT OFFER.
THAN ANYTHING
CAN WE TALK ABOUT THAT?
I DON'T KNOW. I...
YOU HAVE THE GUARD DETAIL,
LIEUTENANT.
YOU CAUGHT HIM.
ACUTE OBSERVATION, DOCTOR.
I'M GLAD TO SEE HIM
UNDER GUARD, JIM.
IF HE'D TURNED INTO
A SECOND SPOCK,
IT WOULD'VE BEEN
TOO MUCH TO TAKE.
PERHAPS.
BUT THEN TWO DR. McCOYS
JUST MIGHT BRING THE LEVEL
OF MEDICAL EFFICIENCY
ON THIS SHIP
UP TO ACCEPTABLE LEVELS.